In this movie, I will discuss how to manage your template files before you decide to share them with
other people.
I am sure this will help you to avoid any potential problems and confusion.
Step number one, Save as Template.
If you follow my steps, but you have not yet saved your Acme .potx file, navigate to the File,
'Save As' options,
and choose the .potx directly from the list.
As I have mentioned before, it is also a good practice to store all your template files in the folder
having the same name as a .potx file.
Step number two, 'Save as Theme'.
To save a template theme, open the .potx file,
navigate to the File tab,
'Save As',
and choose 'Office Theme (.thmx)'.
Make sure you save it in the same folder as your .potx file.
Step number three: include font installation files.
There are some very popular and easily accessible fonts like Arial or Verdana, but it might happen
that your template uses fonts which are not normally available inside Microsoft Office applications.
This is very important.
If you prepare a PowerPoint presentation on the basis of such a template and you open it on another
computer or send it out to someone else who does not have these fonts installed, your slides will
look differently.
In other words, PowerPoint will find a font substitute.
Here comes an example.
This is a slide I prepared on another computer where I have two 'Abadi' fonts installed.
If I open it on this computer without prior Abadi font installation, PowerPoint will use the font substitute,
which is Calibri and will not inform me about this fact.
If I click on a random text placeholder and check the font list, you can see that these fonts
are not displayed correctly.
They both have the same look although, as their name informs me,
one is Regular,
and the second one is ExtraLight.
This is the proof that, yes, Abadi fonts are indeed assigned to my template, but they need to be
downloaded and properly installed to be seen.
To avoid such problems in the future,
make sure that you put all the so-called 'exotic' fonts inside your template folder so that anyone can install
them at any time.
For example,
this is the template I used to prepare the slide you have just seen.
Inside it, I have properly named .potx and .thmx file.
And you can also see a 'Fonts' folder.
If I go inside, I have all Abadi fonts' installation files available.
To install the fonts,
I make sure that PowerPoint is closed, I right mouse click on the font file,
and choose 'Install'.
I repeat the same procedure for the second file.
Now, I open the slide I showed you before,
and as you can see, fonts are here and everything is displayed correctly.
Step number four, create example slides.
It is a good practice to include example slide presentation inside your template folder.
This will give the future users of your template some direction regarding style and design.
At minimum, create samples for Title Slide layout and Title Only layout.
Try to include an example of chart, table,
call out, as well as default line, shape and text box.
Here comes the examples slide file I created for Acme template.
To sum up,
follow all the steps discussed in this movie, and I can assure you that you will avoid many potential
problems with your templates and your presentation creating process will be very fast and smooth.